# Dungeon-of-Evil
A new game that I made. Text based RPG/Roguelike fully made in vanilla Java.

Okay, let's get this out of the way at the start: the code is terrible. Like, really terrible. I am well aware of this. It had been months at least since I'd worked on class structures of this scale, and it shows. The constant use of instanceof instead of polymorphism is the most egregious case. I, for some nonsensical reason, decided to make a static method to handle stuff like ability uses instead of, you know, HANDLING IT IN THE ACTUAL USE METHOD. I guess this came from an irrational fear of having potentially redundant parameters for some methods. Also, I used inheritence in places where I probably should have used interfaces. In my defence, the programming classes I took in highschool did not provide much insight on best practices--it was moreso focused on teaching the language fundamentals and making projects.

With that out of the way, I am going to discuss level generation first. I created a custom algorithm for my level generation partially inspired from that in Brogue (discussed here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uo9-IcHhq_w). To generate a level, the algorithm will first create a square an n number of times. The square must fit in the grid and be at least 1 space apart from other squares. Upon the creation of a square, it will connect a path from it to another cell on the grid. This ensures that there is always a path between them. Finally, once all squares and paths are created, a path from the start is connected to a cell, and same for the end. Then, mobs and items are scattered on the board. The chance is based off the coordinates of the cell: the closer to the exit, the higher the chance. Mobs are placed last and may override items; therefore, mobs are more common than items. Parameters for most of this are tweakable, and it works for any sized board (because of that, I feel that the full potential of this system has gone somewhat underutilized). It may sound relatively straightforward, but the precise logic implementation was exceptionally difficult for me. I suppose I lack the requesite experience to do stuff like this efficently.

The ability system is a bit interesting. Both the player and mobs use the same system. That's how I ended up balancing mob abilities: cooldowns.

The item system shares some similarity with the ability system--particularly with permenant items--but I didn't know how to properly centralize their similarities. Thus, I ended up just copying some of the ability's code over.

My design philosophy for items and abilities was that it was supposed to be easy to add them, but because of those early design decisions, it ended up being very tedious and time consuming. The same goes for modifiers.

I wish that I could have implemented a proper damage pipeline instead of having sources of damage be independent from each other; that would have allowed for a lot more flexibility and complexity in what I could do. Unfortunately, I couldn't think of a way to add one.
